README.md, before:

# Unity Commander

A command line interface for Unity projects written in Rust.

Because typing `ucom open .` to open the Unity project in the current directory is sometimes more convenient than having
to deal with the Unity Hub.

Some examples:

- `ucom list` lists all the Unity versions on the system.
- `ucom list -u 2021.3` lists the Unity versions in the 2021.3 range on the system.

- `ucom new ~/Develop/MyProject` creates a new project using the latest Unity version on the system and initializes a
  git repository wih a Unity specific `.gitignore`.
- `ucom new ~/Develop/MyProject -u 2021.3 -- -quit` creates a new project using the latest 2021.3 version on the system
  and closes the editor after it has been created.

- `ucom open ~/Develop/MyProject` opens the project in the directory.
- `ucom open ~/Develop/MyProject -u 2021.3` opens the project with the latest 2021.3 version. Use it to e.g. upgrade the
  project to the latest Unity version.

- `ucom build . ios` builds the project in the current directory for iOS in batch mode.

## How to install

- Make sure [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) is installed on your system (v1.65.0 or later).
- Run `cargo install --git https://github.com/jakkovanhunen/ucom`.
- The `ucom` command is now available from the commandline.

Or build manually:

- Clone the repository.
- Run `cargo build --release` in the root of this project.
- After completion the executable can be found in the `target/release` directory.

## Injected Build Script

Because Unity does not support command line arguments for building all supported target platforms, the `ucom build`
command injects a [build script](src/include/UcomBuilder.cs) into the project to trigger the build for a specific
platform.

By default the script is removed from the project after the build has been completed. If you want to keep the script,
add the `--inject persistent` option to the `ucom build` command.

Use `ucom --injected-script` or `ucom -I` to print the build script to the console so you can take a look at it.

## Environment Variables

- `UCOM_EDITOR_DIR` - Path to the directory where the editors are installed. If not set, the `ucom` command will try to
  find the Unity editor executables from the default Unity Hub installation directory.
- `UCOM_BUILD_TARGET` - The default build target to use when building a project. If not set, the `ucom build` command
  requires the target platform to be specified as an argument.
- `UCOM_DEFAULT_VERSION` - The default Unity version to use when creating a new project or running Unity. If not set,
  the `ucom new` and `ucom run` commands use the latest version of Unity installed on the system or require a (partial)
  Unity version to be specified as an argument.

## Limitations

- Only macOS and Windows are supported.
- Looks for the editors installations in the default location. If this is not the case, set the `UCOM_EDITOR_DIR`
  environment variable to the directory where the editors are installed.
- Requires that git is available for initializing a repository when using the `new` command.
- `ucom build` does not support building a project that is already open in the editor.

## `ucom help`

```
Usage: ucom [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]

Commands:
  list   Shows a list of the installed Unity versions [aliases: l]
  info   Shows project information [aliases: i]
  new    Creates a new Unity project and Git repository (uses latest available Unity version by default) [aliases: n]
  open   Opens the given Unity project in the Unity Editor [aliases: o]
  build  Builds the given Unity project [aliases: b]
  run    Runs Unity with the givens arguments (uses latest available Unity version by default) [aliases: r]
  help   Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -I, --injected-script  Display the build script that is injected into the project
  -h, --help             Print help information
  -V, --version          Print version information
```

## `ucom help list`

```
Shows a list of the installed Unity versions

Usage: ucom list [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -u, --unity <VERSION>  The Unity versions to list. You can specify a partial version; e.g. 2021 will list all
                         the 2021.x.y versions you have installed on your system.
  -h, --help             Print help information
```

## `ucom help info`

```
Shows project information

Usage: ucom info [OPTIONS] <DIRECTORY>

Arguments:
  <DIRECTORY>
          The directory of the project

Options:
  -p, --packages <PACKAGES>
          The level of included packages to show

          [default: more]

          Possible values:
          - none: Don't show any included packages
          - some: Show non-Unity packages
          - more: + packages from the registry
          - most: + builtin packages and dependencies

  -h, --help
          Print help information (use `-h` for a summary)
```

## `ucom help new`

```
Creates a new Unity project and Git repository (uses latest available Unity version by default)

Usage: ucom new [OPTIONS] <DIRECTORY> [-- <UNITY_ARGS>...]

Arguments:
  <DIRECTORY>      The directory where the project is created. This directory should not exist yet
  [UNITY_ARGS]...  A list of arguments passed directly to Unity

Options:
  -u, --unity <VERSION>  The Unity version to use for the new project. You can specify a partial version; e.g. 2021 will
                         match the latest 2021.x.y version you have installed on your system [env: UCOM_DEFAULT_VERSION=]
      --no-git           Suppress initializing a new git repository
  -w, --wait             Waits for the command to finish before continuing
  -q, --quiet            Do not print ucom log messages
  -n, --dry-run          Show what would be run, but do not actually run it
  -h, --help             Print help information
```

## `ucom help open`

```
Opens the given Unity project in the Unity Editor

Usage: ucom open [OPTIONS] <DIRECTORY> [-- <UNITY_ARGS>...]

Arguments:
  <DIRECTORY>      The directory of the project
  [UNITY_ARGS]...  A list of arguments passed directly to Unity

Options:
  -u, --unity <VERSION>  The Unity version to open the project with. Use it to open a project with a newer Unity
                         version. You can specify a partial version; e.g. 2021 will match the latest 2021.x.y version
                         you have installed on your system
  -w, --wait             Waits for the command to finish before continuing
  -q, --quiet            Do not print ucom log messages
  -n, --dry-run          Show what would be run, but do not actually run it
  -h, --help             Print help information
```

## `ucom help build`

```
Builds the given Unity project

Usage: ucom build [OPTIONS] <DIRECTORY> <TARGET> [-- <UNITY_ARGS>...]

Arguments:
  <DIRECTORY>
          The directory of the project

  <TARGET>
          The target platform to build for

          [env: UCOM_BUILD_TARGET=]
          [possible values: win32, win64, macos, linux64, ios, android, webgl]

  [UNITY_ARGS]...
          A list of arguments passed directly to Unity

Options:
  -o, --output <DIRECTORY>
          The output directory of the build. When omitted the build will be placed in <DIRECTORY>/Builds/<TARGET>

  -i, --inject <METHOD>
          Build script injection method

          [default: auto]

          Possible values:
          - auto:       If there is no build script, inject one and remove it after the build
          - persistent: Inject the build script into the project and don't remove it afterwards
          - off:        Don't inject the build script and use the one that is already in the project

  -m, --mode <MODE>
          Build mode

          [default: batch]

          Possible values:
          - batch:       Build in batch mode and wait for the build to finish
          - batch-nogfx: Build in batch mode without the graphics device and wait for the build to finish
          - editor-quit: Build in the editor and quit after the build
          - editor:      Build in the editor and keep it open (handy for debugging the build process)

  -f, --build-function <FUNCTION>
          A static method in the Unity project that is called to build the project

          [default: ucom.UcomBuilder.Build]

  -l, --log-file <FILE>
          The log file to write Unity's output to

          [default: build.log]

  -q, --quiet
          Don't output the build log to stdout

  -n, --dry-run
          Show what would be run, but do not actually run it

  -h, --help
          Print help information (use `-h` for a summary)
```

## `ucom help run`

```
Runs Unity with the givens arguments (uses latest available Unity version by default)

Usage: ucom run [OPTIONS] -- <UNITY_ARGS>...

Arguments:
  <UNITY_ARGS>...  A list of arguments passed directly to Unity

Options:
  -u, --unity <VERSION>  The Unity version to run. You can specify a partial version; e.g. 2021 will match the latest
                         2021.x.y version you have installed on your system [env: UCOM_DEFAULT_VERSION=]
  -w, --wait             Waits for the command to finish before continuing
  -q, --quiet            Do not print ucom log messages
  -n, --dry-run          Show what would be run, but do not actually run it
  -h, --help             Print help information
```

Commit message:

info, build and open commands default to the current directory when no path is specified

README.md, after:

# Unity Commander

A command line interface for Unity projects written in Rust.

Because typing `ucom open` (or `ucom o` for even less typing) to open the Unity project in the current directory is
sometimes more convenient than having to deal with the Unity Hub.

Some examples:

- `ucom list` - Lists all the Unity versions on the system.
- `ucom list -u 2021.3` - Lists the Unity versions in the 2021.3 range on the system.

- `ucom info` - Prints information about the Unity project in the current directory.

- `ucom new ~/Develop/MyProject` - Creates a new project using the latest Unity version on the system and initializes a
  git repository wih a Unity specific `.gitignore`.
- `ucom new ~/Develop/MyProject -u 2021.3 -- -quit` - Creates a new project using the latest 2021.3 version on the
  system and closes the editor after it has been created.

- `ucom open ~/Develop/MyProject` - Opens the project in the directory.
- `ucom open ~/Develop/MyProject -u 2021.3` - Opens the project with the latest 2021.3 version. Use it to e.g. upgrade
  the project to the latest Unity version.

- `ucom build ios` - Starts an iOS batch-mode build of the project in the current directory.
- `ucom build android ~/Develop/MyProject -mode editor-quit` - Starts an Android build of the project in the editor and
  quits it afterwards.

## How to install

- Make sure [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) is installed on your system (v1.65.0 or later).
- Run `cargo install --git https://github.com/jakkovanhunen/ucom`.
- The `ucom` command is now available from the commandline.

Or build manually:

- Clone the repository.
- Run `cargo build --release` in the root of this project.
- After completion the executable can be found in the `target/release` directory.

## Injected Build Script

Because Unity does not support command line arguments for building all supported target platforms, the `ucom build`
command injects a [build script](src/include/UcomBuilder.cs) into the project to trigger the build for a specific
platform.

By default the script is removed from the project after the build has been completed. If you want to keep the script,
add the `--inject persistent` option to the `ucom build` command.

Use `ucom --injected-script` or `ucom -I` to print the build script to the console so you can take a look at it.

## Environment Variables

- `UCOM_EDITOR_DIR` - Path to the directory where the editors are installed. If not set, the `ucom` command will try to
  find the Unity editor executables from the default Unity Hub installation directory.
- `UCOM_BUILD_TARGET` - The default build target to use when building a project. If not set, the `ucom build` command
  requires the target platform to be specified as an argument.
- `UCOM_DEFAULT_VERSION` - The default Unity version to use when creating a new project or running Unity. If not set,
  the `ucom new` and `ucom run` commands use the latest version of Unity installed on the system or require a (partial)
  Unity version to be specified as an argument.

## Limitations

- Only macOS and Windows are supported.
- Looks for the editors installations in the default location. If this is not the case, set the `UCOM_EDITOR_DIR`
  environment variable to the directory where the editors are installed.
- Requires that git is available for initializing a repository when using the `new` command.
- `ucom build` does not support building a project that is already open in the editor.

## `ucom help`

```
Usage: ucom [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]

Commands:
  list   Shows a list of the installed Unity versions [aliases: l]
  info   Shows project information [aliases: i]
  new    Creates a new Unity project and Git repository (uses latest available Unity version by default) [aliases: n]
  open   Opens the given Unity project in the Unity Editor [aliases: o]
  build  Builds the given Unity project [aliases: b]
  run    Runs Unity with the givens arguments (uses latest available Unity version by default) [aliases: r]
  help   Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -I, --injected-script  Display the build script that is injected into the project
  -h, --help             Print help information
  -V, --version          Print version information
```

## `ucom help list`

```
Shows a list of the installed Unity versions

Usage: ucom list [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -u, --unity <VERSION>  The Unity versions to list. You can specify a partial version; e.g. 2021 will list all
                         the 2021.x.y versions you have installed on your system.
  -h, --help             Print help information
```

## `ucom help info`

```
Shows project information

Usage: ucom info [OPTIONS] [DIRECTORY]

Arguments:
  [DIRECTORY]
          The directory of the project

          [default: .]

Options:
  -p, --packages <PACKAGES>
          The level of included packages to show

          [default: more]

          Possible values:
          - none: Don't show any included packages
          - some: Show non-Unity packages
          - more: + packages from the registry
          - most: + builtin packages and dependencies

  -h, --help
          Print help information (use `-h` for a summary)
```

## `ucom help new`

```
Creates a new Unity project and Git repository (uses latest available Unity version by default)

Usage: ucom new [OPTIONS] <DIRECTORY> [-- <UNITY_ARGS>...]

Arguments:
  <DIRECTORY>      The directory where the project is created. This directory should not exist yet
  [UNITY_ARGS]...  A list of arguments passed directly to Unity

Options:
  -u, --unity <VERSION>  The Unity version to use for the new project. You can specify a partial version; e.g. 2021 will
                         match the latest 2021.x.y version you have installed on your system [env: UCOM_DEFAULT_VERSION=]
      --no-git           Suppress initializing a new git repository
  -w, --wait             Waits for the command to finish before continuing
  -q, --quiet            Do not print ucom log messages
  -n, --dry-run          Show what would be run, but do not actually run it
  -h, --help             Print help information
```

## `ucom help open`

```
Opens the given Unity project in the Unity Editor

Usage: ucom open [OPTIONS] [DIRECTORY] [-- <UNITY_ARGS>...]

Arguments:
  [DIRECTORY]      The directory of the project [default: .]
  [UNITY_ARGS]...  A list of arguments passed directly to Unity

Options:
  -u, --unity <VERSION>  The Unity version to open the project with. Use it to open a project with a newer Unity
                         version. You can specify a partial version; e.g. 2021 will match the latest 2021.x.y version
                         you have installed on your system
  -w, --wait             Waits for the command to finish before continuing
  -q, --quiet            Do not print ucom log messages
  -n, --dry-run          Show what would be run, but do not actually run it
  -h, --help             Print help information
```

## `ucom help build`

```
Builds the given Unity project

Usage: ucom build [OPTIONS] <TARGET> [DIRECTORY] [-- <UNITY_ARGS>...]

Arguments:
  <TARGET>
          The target platform to build for

          [env: UCOM_BUILD_TARGET=]
          [possible values: win32, win64, macos, linux64, ios, android, webgl]

  [DIRECTORY]
          The directory of the project

          [default: .]

  [UNITY_ARGS]...
          A list of arguments passed directly to Unity

Options:
  -o, --output <DIRECTORY>
          The output directory of the build. When omitted the build will be placed in <PROJECT_DIR>/Builds/<TARGET>

  -i, --inject <METHOD>
          Build script injection method

          [default: auto]

          Possible values:
          - auto:       If there is no build script, inject one and remove it after the build
          - persistent: Inject the build script into the project and don't remove it afterwards
          - off:        Don't inject the build script and use the one that is already in the project

  -m, --mode <MODE>
          Build mode

          [default: batch]

          Possible values:
          - batch:       Build in batch mode and wait for the build to finish
          - batch-nogfx: Build in batch mode without the graphics device and wait for the build to finish
          - editor-quit: Build in the editor and quit after the build
          - editor:      Build in the editor and keep it open (handy for debugging the build process)

  -f, --build-function <FUNCTION>
          A static method in the Unity project that is called to build the project

          [default: ucom.UcomBuilder.Build]

  -l, --log-file <FILE>
          The log file to write Unity's output to

          [default: build.log]

  -q, --quiet
          Don't output the build log to stdout

  -n, --dry-run
          Show what would be run, but do not actually run it

  -h, --help
          Print help information (use `-h` for a summary)
```

## `ucom help run`

```
Runs Unity with the givens arguments (uses latest available Unity version by default)

Usage: ucom run [OPTIONS] -- <UNITY_ARGS>...

Arguments:
  <UNITY_ARGS>...  A list of arguments passed directly to Unity

Options:
  -u, --unity <VERSION>  The Unity version to run. You can specify a partial version; e.g. 2021 will match the latest
                         2021.x.y version you have installed on your system [env: UCOM_DEFAULT_VERSION=]
  -w, --wait             Waits for the command to finish before continuing
  -q, --quiet            Do not print ucom log messages
  -n, --dry-run          Show what would be run, but do not actually run it
  -h, --help             Print help information
```
